Trump (German: [ˈtʁʊmp]; Palatine German: [ˈdrʊmpʰ]; American English: ) is a German and German-American family, descended from Johann Philipp Trump (1667–1707) from Kallstadt in then Electoral Palatinate, Holy Roman Empire, today in modern Germany.
While the surname Trump is found throughout Germany, it is recorded as the name of this family in Kallstadt since the 17th century, where many family members were winegrowers. Family members also still live in the family's ancestral region in southwestern Germany.
Several family members moved to and formed cadet branches in the United States in the 19th century, among them Johann Heinrich Heinz, a son of Charlotte Louisa Trump, who became the father of Henry J. Heinz, the founder of the Heinz company. A prominent branch of the family is the line descended from Friedrich (Frederick) Trump (1869–1918) and Elisabeth Trump née Christ (1880–1966), both natives of Kallstadt.
The German-American Trump family have been prominent in the fields of real estate, entertainment, and politics. Its most famous member is Donald Trump, the 45th President of the United States.


== History ==

Trump is a German surname derived from either the word for "drum" or for "trumpet". The name is on record in Kallstadt from the 17th century.
Gwenda Blair in her book The Trumps (2000) suggests the family may be descended from an itinerant lawyer, Hanns Drumpf, who settled in Kallstadt in 1608 and whose descendants changed their name from Drumpf to Trump during the Thirty Years' War of the 1600s. However, this is not in accordance with data provided by German genealogists. Journalist Kate Connolly, visiting Kallstadt, found several variations in spelling of the surname in the village archives (including Drumb, Tromb, Tromp, Trum, Trumpff, Dromb) but her article does not note "Drumpf". There are no indications that other spellings of the name, including Trumpf, could be related to the Trumps.
Johannes Trump from the nearby village Bobenheim am Berg had established himself as a winegrower in Kallstadt by the late 17th century. Several of his descendants also were vintners in Kallstadt, one of many villages in the famous wine-growing region of the Palatinate (Pfalz). Charlotte Louisa Trump (1789–1833) married Johann Georg Heinz, and their son Johann Heinrich (John Henry) Heinz (1811–1891) emigrated from Kallstadt to the United States in 1840 and was the father of Henry J. Heinz (1844–1919), the founder of the Heinz company.
Stories about famous emigrants are common in the region, where many people have relations abroad. In 2015, filmmaker Simone Wendel, herself from Kallstadt (and remotely related to Trump) produced a documentary called Kings of Kallstadt. The film deals with the ongoing relationship between the local inhabitants and their prominent relatives, both the Heinz and Trump business families in the USA. Wendel interviewed Trump in New York and showed a Kallstadt delegation at the Steuben Day parade. Trump prolonged the interview over the preset time and promised to visit Kallstadt.


=== Friedrich Trump's American family branch ===
Friedrich Trump was one of six children of a wine grower. He was a second cousin of Henry J. Heinz, founder of H. J. Heinz Company. Friedrich learned the profession of hairdresser. In 1885 Friedrick Trump emigrated from Kallstadt to the United States at age 16. As he did not yet serve the mandatory military duty of two years in the Kingdom of Bavaria, this emmigration was illegal. He anglicized his name to Frederick in 1892 when he became a U.S. citizen. During the Alaska Gold Rush, he amassed a fortune by opening restaurants and hotels for gold seekers on their way to the region. When visiting home Frederick fell in love with Elizabeth. In 1902 he married Elisabeth Christ, who was born in 1880 and who died on June 6, 1966. Like her husband, she was a native of Kallstadt, born as the daughter of Philipp and Marie Christ. Philipp Christ was descended from Johannes Christ (1626–1688/9) of Flörsheim, Hesse. Friedrich Trump was the father of Elizabeth (Elisabeth) Trump (1904–1961), real estate developer Fred Trump (1905–1999) and physicist and inventor John G. Trump (1907–1985). Frederick sold his business and settled with Elizabeth in New York. She did not like it so much, and wanted to go back to bavaria with her husband and daughter. Frederick wanted to get back his bavarian citizenship. This failed because of the illegal emmigration years earlier. A letter, today in the national archive in Speyer, forces Trump to leave the country until May 1905. Trump tried to avoid the leave by writing to Luitpold, but no success. 1st of July 1905 they boarded the Pennsylvania. 3 months later Donald Trumps father was born. After Fredericks death, his fortune was passed on to his wife and son.
Fred Trump (1905–1999), born in New York, was one of the biggest real estate developers in New York City. Using his father's inheritance, Fred Trump and his mother Elizabeth founded Elizabeth Trump & Son. Donald Trump later renamed it The Trump Organization and served as its chairman and president until assuming the office of U.S. President. Fred Trump married Mary MacLeod (1912–2000), a native of Tong, a small village near Stornoway, in the Western Isles of Scotland. She was the daughter of fisherman Malcolm Macleod and Mary Macleod (née Smith). At age 17, she immigrated to the United States and started working as a maid in New York. Fred and Mary met in New York and married in 1936, settling together in Queens. Mary became a U.S. citizen in 1942. Fred Trump was the father of the businessman Donald Trump. Donald Trump has said that he is "proud" of his German heritage, having served as grand marshal of the 1999 German-American Steuben Parade in New York City. While walking through the city and seeing Trump Tower, Donald Trump recalled saying: "This is a long way from Kallstadt."
John G. Trump married Elora Sauerbrun (1913–1983), and they were the parents of John Gordon Trump (1938–2012).
The 2016 media interest about Kallstadt started in the middle of the night after the announcement of Trump's election. The local reaction has been mixed. There is not much interest in becoming a place of pilgrimage for Trump aficionados; tourism unrelated to Trump is already flourishing. The house where Trump's grandfather Friedrich (Frederick) Trump was born is currently for sale. Deutsche Welle notes: "[T]he villagers used to have a better opinion of Donald Trump, before he started his boisterous campaign."


== Family tree ==


== Immediate family of Donald Trump ==

President Donald Trump has married thrice, to Ivana Zelníčková, Marla Maples and Melania Knauss.
President Trump has five children of which four are adult children from two previous marriages: Donald Jr., Ivanka, and Eric Trump with Ivana Trump, and Tiffany Trump with Marla Maples. Trump has one son with Melania Trump, Barron, born on March 20, 2006. He is the first pre-teen son to live in the White House since John F. Kennedy Jr. arrived as an infant in 1961. All three of his children with Ivana Trump were Executive Vice Presidents at The Trump Organization until Trump was elected President. Tiffany Trump is a recent college graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, her father's alma mater.


== Religious affiliations ==
The original Trump family in Germany are Lutheran members of the Evangelical Church of the Palatinate, although that region has been overwhelmingly Calvinist since Frederick III, Elector Palatine introduced the Reformed faith in the mid 16th century. Members of the family's American branch, beginning with Mary Anne McLeod, tend to be Presbyterians, Dutch Reformed or adherents of other Reformed denominations. Donald Trump's parents belonged to the Reformed Church in America, although he was confirmed at one of the Presbyterian Church (USA) congregations himself. This matter of membership, like in case of many American Protestants, does not play a big role since he attends services of both denominations and other ones that are part of the Reformed tradition, and sometimes even some that subscribe to other Protestant branches (like the Episcopal Church (USA), an Anglican denomination).
In 2016, Donald Trump visited Bethesda-by-the-Sea, an Episcopal Church, for Christmas service.
Ivanka Trump practices Judaism, having converted upon marrying her husband Jared Kushner.


== References ==